docs/technical_reference/costing/cstr.rst, before:

Completely Stirred Tank Reactor Costing Method
===============================================

Costing Method Parameters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

The following parameters are constructed for the unit on the FlowsheetCostingBlock (e.g., `m.fs.costing.cstr`) when applying the `cost_cstr` costing method in the ``watertap_costing_package``:

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Description", "Symbol", "Parameter Name", "Default Value", "Units"

   "description", ":math:`Symbol_{example}`", "parameter_name", "1", ":math:`\text{dimensionless}`"

Costing Method Variables
++++++++++++++++++++++++

The following variables are constructed on the unit block (e.g., m.fs.unit.costing) when applying the `cost_cstr` costing method in the ``watertap_costing_package``:

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Description", "Symbol", "Variable Name", "Default Value", "Units"

   "description", ":math:`Symbol_{example}`", "variable_name", "1", ":math:`\text{dimensionless}`"

Capital Cost Calculations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Describe capital costs..keep it concise where possible

    .. math::

        C_{cap,tot} = C_{cap,example1}+C_{cap,example2}+C_{cap,other}

    .. math::

        C_{cap,example1} = fill in equation for each component in total capex equation

 
Operating Cost Calculations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Describe operating/maintenance costs..keep it concise where possible

    .. math::

        C_{op,tot} = C_{op,example1}+C_{op,example2}+C_{op,other}

    .. math::

        C_{op,example1} = fill in equation for each component in total opex equation

 
Code Documentation
------------------

* :mod:`watertap.costing.unit_models.cstr`

References
----------
Aim to include at least one reference in most cases, but delete this section if no references used for cost relationships/default values

Commit message:

Adding Examples of Unit Model Costing Documentation (#1373)
* Create cstr_injection doc

* Add unit model costing documentation

* Clean up file

* Add aeration tank to index

* Remove AD from changed files (was changed accidentally)

* Address formatting issues

* Undo AD doc changes

* Correct typo

* Replace Default Value column heading with Index

* Add reference to CSTR documentation

docs/technical_reference/costing/cstr.rst, after:

Completely Stirred Tank Reactor Costing Method
===============================================

Costing Method Parameters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

The following parameters are constructed for the unit on the FlowsheetCostingBlock (e.g., `m.fs.costing.cstr`) when applying the `cost_cstr` costing method in the ``watertap_costing_package``:

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Description", "Symbol", "Parameter Name", "Default Value", "Units"

   "Capital cost A parameter :math:`^1`", ":math:`A`", "capital_a_parameter", "1246.1", ":math:`\text{USD}_{1990}`"
   "Capital cost B parameter :math:`^1`", ":math:`B`", "capital_b_parameter", "0.71", ":math:`\text{dimensionless}`"

Costing Method Variables
++++++++++++++++++++++++

There are no costing method variables unique to the CSTR.

Capital Cost Calculations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Capital cost is dependent upon the unit's volume, :math:`V`, as shown in the equation below.

    .. math::

        C_{cap,tot} = A * V^{B}

 
Operating Cost Calculations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

There are no operating costs unique to the CSTR.
 
Code Documentation
------------------

* :mod:`watertap.costing.unit_models.cstr`

References
----------
[1] Eberle, Annika, Irina Tsiryapkina, Steve Peterson, Laura Vimmerstedt, Dylan Hettinger,
and Daniel Inman. 2020. An Overview of the Waste-to-Energy System Simulation
(WESyS) Model. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
NREL/TP-6A20-77166. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/77166.pdf.
