docs/tutorials/index.rst, before:

Tutorials
=========

Since WaterTAP is based on the IDAES platform and follows its conventions,
the `IDAES tutorials <https://idaes-pse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/tutorials_examples.html>`_ are a good starting point for learning how to use WaterTAP.

In particular, new users should be familiar with Python and Pyomo. Because WaterTAP
and IDAES share this common base, we refer users unfamiliar with Python or Pyomo to
the IDAES tutorials `Short introduction to Python and Pyomo <https://idaes.github.io/examples-pse/latest/Tutorials/Basics/introduction_short_solution_doc.html>`_ or the 
`Longer introduction to Python and Pyomo <https://idaes.github.io/examples-pse/latest/Tutorials/Basics/introduction_solution_doc.html>`_.

The tutorials included with WaterTAP are available in the "tutorials" directory
on the WaterTAP GitHub Homepage: `<https://github.com/watertap-org/watertap/tree/main/tutorials>`_.

.. note::
    For important details on running tutorial notebooks, refer to :ref:`this guide<notebooks>`.

    **To run WaterTAP tutorials online (no installation required), click on the "launch binder" button below to launch an environment pointing to the current** ``main`` **branch of the WaterTAP repository:**
    
    .. image:: https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg
     :target: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/watertap-org/watertap/main?labpath=tutorials%2Fintroduction.ipynb

Commit message:

Create landing page for tutorials (#1178)
* Add .ipynb file to serve as tutorial landing page

* Point Binder link to 00-index.ipynb

* Make example for customizing Binder link more generic

* Add rst_epilog with Binder button substitution

* update kernelspec to fix errors

* edit intro tutorial and TOC description

* add to tutorial landing page and rename/modify a couple tutorials slightly; issue with parmest tutorial so far, reported in issue 1389

* refine parmest tutorial; change df display so tabulate not necessary; comment interactive plot line and keep optional; include get_solver

* slightly refine parameter sweep tutorial and add to landing page with descriptions

* add customization tutorial

* fix kernelspec

* make landing page accessible from documentation

* try to fix docs error

* fix error

* fix links in new tutorials and add new tutorials to landing page

* slight adjustment to description

* delete empty cell intro tutorial

* repair path to RO_ERD_flowsheet png in intro tutorial

* modify tutorials index to start with link to watertap tutorials and push background info on pyomo/idaes/python to bottom

* clear outputs on oli tutorial

* change kernelspec back to watertap-dev in dspmde tutorial

* fix kernelspec names on remaining notebooks

---------

Co-authored-by: Adam Atia <aatia@keylogic.com>

docs/tutorials/index.rst, after:

Tutorials
=========

The tutorials included with WaterTAP are available in the "tutorials" directory
on the WaterTAP GitHub Homepage: `<https://github.com/watertap-org/watertap/tree/main/tutorials/00-index.ipynb>`_.

.. note::
    For important details on running tutorial notebooks, refer to :ref:`this guide<notebooks>`.

**To run WaterTAP tutorials online (no installation required), click on the "launch binder" button below to launch an environment pointing to the current** ``main`` **branch of the WaterTAP repository:**

.. warning::
    **The use of Binder is currently an experimental effort for WaterTAP. Binder may take a long time to launch completely or may not launch successfully at all in some cases. If this happens, please follow the link to tutorials that was provided above.**

    |Binder launch button|

Since WaterTAP is based on the IDAES platform and follows its conventions,
the `IDAES tutorials <https://idaes-pse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/tutorials_examples.html>`_ are a good starting point for learning how to use WaterTAP.

In particular, new users should be familiar with Python and Pyomo. Because WaterTAP
and IDAES share this common base, we refer users unfamiliar with Python or Pyomo to
the IDAES tutorials `Short introduction to Python and Pyomo <https://idaes.github.io/examples-pse/latest/Tutorials/Basics/introduction_short_solution_doc.html>`_ or the 
`Longer introduction to Python and Pyomo <https://idaes.github.io/examples-pse/latest/Tutorials/Basics/introduction_solution_doc.html>`_.
